(Introduction) Oh yeah, very, very stoked to be here.
Hi, as Mark said, my name is Kevin Whinnery.
I work for an outfit called Twilio.
We make an API that lets you send and receive text messages,
make and receive phone calls,
and embed chat and video calling and any kind of communication
experience that you might imagine into your applications.
And I lead a team called developer education,
and we build the website which serves twilio.
com/docs and also manage a couple other internal services as well.
And yeah, I'm very, very stoked to be here.
One of my favorite parts about the job is when I can get in front of groups of
folks and work through some content and facilitate some learning on your part
on a subject that I like to talk about a lot,
which is Node.
js.
Just a quick refresher on the agenda, we are going to be here for two days,
so make sure that you take care of yourself,
take breaks whenever you need to because it definitely going
to be a lot of content and a lot of code for over the course
of the next couple of days.
And today,
we're going to start off by getting to know some folks here in the
room and also hopefully online a little bit.
Looks like we have a good set of folks, 52 users right now online,
which is pretty awesome.
And then over the course of the next couple days we'll be talking about a Node.
js application code base.
And I'll get into some of the theory around that
after we talk about the agenda here,
but we'll kind of start with the basics of just running a Node.
js web server,
talk a little bit about some of the build tools and the automation
that's built into the project that we'll be looking at.
We'll take a break after, and we'll be writing code,
a lot of code, in between each of these presentations.
Then we'll talk about the data tier of the application
and some of the choices we made there,
and then we'll cap off the day by actually deploying this application to AWS.
So, if you haven't already,
now would be an excellent time or at some point in the near
future to sign up for an AWS account.
Everything that we'll do today can be done with the free tier of services.
So you can sign up for an account,
and then we'll actually kind of together go through the steps that you need to
accomplish to get this application configured and deployed.
And we'll be doing a little more manually than you might
after you've done this a few times,
but configuring the stack manually has some advantages in
learning kind of what some of the moving parts are.
So,
we'll be kind of configuring our production environment and kind of
understanding what all those different moving pieces are.
Then tomorrow we'll be talking about the front end,
so we'll talk about some of the front-end toolchain bits
that we're using to build and compile our JavaScript and
CSS assets for the front end.
And then we'll talk about how we actually build the front end with Vue.
js.
Our sample application uses Vue.
It's a --- it's not quite the behemoth of say React or Angular or one of those,
but the toolchain and the general techniques of building an
application like this will be similar across all those.
And if you haven't checked out Vue before,
hopefully it'll kind of whet your appetite for what I think is kind of a nice
middle ground between very large frameworks like React,
which kind of assert themselves into your application in a big way,
and something maybe lightweight like jQuery,
I think it kind of sits in an interesting middle
ground between those two frameworks.
We'll talk a little bit about how we create a real-time component to this
application and some of the things that we have to work through in our
production environment on AWS to make sure that works correctly.
We'll take a little break,
and then we'll finish up the afternoon by looking at some of the lesser
known --- the lesser celebrated parts of web development,
which are the things that you have to do after the application is
deployed to make sure that it stays running in production,
that it can handle a reasonable amount of load,
that it is actually solving problems for your users and how
to kind of instrument your application to understand how
users are interacting with it.
So we'll talk a little bit about those production monitoring and load testing
tools and also dig into some web analytic stuff as well.
And then afterwards I will definitely stick around for as
long as folks want to for Q&A on both days.
And we should have enough time in between each of the
presentations and the brief demos to answer any questions
that folks might have as well,
and I'm happy to dive as deep as I can into those different areas.
So, the title of this course is Zero to Production with Node.
js,
and the reason I wanted to approach the workshop like
this in a slightly different way,
Mark said I actually did do a workshop many years ago which focused
on just a sort of basic introduction to Node.
js and some of the key modules that you're likely to
use in your journey as a Node.
js developer, but that is really like kind of the easy part, right?
Like writing code that does stuff is something that
we're all reasonably good at.
We can download a module.
We can dig through the documentation.
We can figure out how it works.
What is not necessarily super well understood is how you fit all
those pieces together in an actual code base that builds an
application and solves a problem for a user.
So,
the goal of this workshop is to get everybody in here
walking away with a starting point.
I imagine that all of us will want to customize some of the
components that we'll find here quite a bit.
But I would like us to at least walk away with a starting point that
has productive development environment that you can iterate on
quickly as you're building features and also one that won't fall over
under a reasonable amount of load.
We're not going to be creating a deployment
infrastructure to run Netflix or Twitter,
but we should be able to understand what the
performance ceiling is of our application,
and we'll hopefully leave today with the tools to understand what that is.
So, we'll be walking through a sample project,
which uses a structure which is very similar to what you
might find in a production Node application,
uses a lot of the same techniques and tools,
and is something that you can build on as a template to
build your own production Node application.
Over the next two days, you'll notice we're not going too deep on any one module.
We'll talking a little bit about Express,
we'll be talking a little bit about Sequelize and Postgres,
we'll be talking a little bit about Grunt and npm run
scripts and some of the command line tooling,
but again,
the objective here is to get a sense of like what are all the pieces that
you'll need to bring together to actually deploy a Node.
js web application.
The other bit that I wanted to expose you to with this
content is usage of newer ES2015, ES2016,
whatever you want to call it,
features of the JavaScript programming language that are showing up in Node 6,
which is the version of Node that I wrote tested this content against.
And using transforms, we can actually also use that same code in the browser,
so I wanted to give you a little bit of exposure to those new
JavaScript programming language features that you may or may not have
started to use in your own applications already.
But mostly, the most important bit is that bit down on the bottom there,
is taking the time to write code.
The collective opportunity cost of everybody here in the room
and of the 50 people online is tremendous.
There's nothing more valuable in the world than an hour of developer's time.
So number one,
I really appreciate you spending that time here with me and learning about Node.
js.
And number two,
I think that the best investment of that time is just
getting soak time writing code.
There's no substitute for actually digging into code,
debugging stuff, referencing documentation,
figuring things out.
So this workshop experience has been optimized to allow you
to write lots of code with support from everybody here in
this room and support from me, but really to get you that time in repetition. You will be your own best teacher here in the next two days.